# ssrn_id2742170_code1714688

> Extracted from: ssrn_id2742170_code1714688.pdf (24 pages)

---
## Page 1

 Electronic  copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170  1  
A Respecified Fama French Three Factor Model For The Eastern European 
Transition Nations  
 
James Foye  
University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Economics  
Kardeljeva ploščad 17  
1000 Ljubljana  
James.foye @ef.uni -lj.si 
 
Dušan Mramor  
University of Ljubl jana, Faculty of Economics  
Kardeljeva ploščad 17  
1000 Ljubljana  
dusan.mramor@ef.uni -lj.si 
 
Marko Pahor  
University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Economics  
Kardeljeva ploščad 17  
1000 Ljubljana  
marko.pahor@ef.uni -lj.si 
 
 
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 2

 Electronic  copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170  2 Abstract  
This paper uses factor models to explain stock market returns in the Eastern 
European (EE) countries that joined the European Union (EU) in 20 04. In line with 
other studies, we find that the market value of equity component in the Fama 
French (1993) three factor model performs poorly when applied to our emerging 
markets dataset. We propose  a significant amendment to the standard three factor  
mod el by replacing the market value of equity factor with  a term that proxies for 
accounting manipulation. We show that our three factor model is better able to 
explain returns in the EE EU nations tha n the Fama French (1993) three factor model, 
hereby offeri ng an alternative model for use in the numerous markets  in which 
previous studies have found little correlation between market value of equity  and 
equity returns.  
 
Introduction   
The debate over what determinants  explain equity returns is one of the centra l 
tenets of capital market theory. Since the publication of Sharpe’s (1964) capital asset 
pricing model (CAPM), a number of anomalies have been documented identifying  
investment strategies based on firm characteristics that consistently generated 
returns i n excess of those explainable by CAPM. Banz (1981) found that smaller 
capitalization stocks outperformed larger capitalization stocks; while Stattman 
(1980) and Rosenberg, Reid and Lanstein (1985) report that returns are related to a 
firm’s book -to-market (BE/ME ) ratio. Since the publication of Fama and French’s 
(1993) influential paper – which augmented CAPM to incorporate the 
aforementioned anomalies into a three factor model  comprised  of beta and factors 
proxying market value of equity (ME) and book -to-price (BE/ME) – the debate over 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 3

 3 whether the findings are risk factors , attributable to investor irrationality , or merely 
a product of  data mining  has become one of the most contentious  issues in the 
financial literature. The issue is particularly pertinent for the Eastern European 
nations that joined the EU in 20041 (hereafter the EE EU nations) because of the 
stock market’s crucial role in the ongoing privatization process and also as it serves 
as an important barometer with which to measure the progress ma de by these 
countries in the transition from planned to market economies.   
 
Fama and French (1993) consider CAPM to be misspecified and believe that their 
three factor model incorporates additional risk factors that are absent from CAPM; 
thus they consider  their results to be consistent with the efficient market hypothesis. 
Howev er, other researchers consider  Fama and French’s (1993) results to be 
indicative of investor irrationality  and inefficient markets , particularly with respect to 
the BE/ME component of the model. Researchers such as Debondt and Thaler 
(1987), Lakonishok, Shleifer and Vishny (1994) and Haugen (1995) adopt a 
behavioralist stance and hypothesize that BE/ME’s explanatory ability on returns is a 
product of investor overreaction to both goo d and bad news. Investors  extrapolate 
past performance and become over ly pessimistic for high BE/ME (value) stocks and 
overly optimistic for low BE/ME (growth) stocks. When the overreaction is eventually 
corrected, high BE/ME stocks outperform and low BE/M E stocks underperform. 
Others question the methodology employed by Fama and French (1993), the main 
such argument is by authors such as Berk (1995) who argue that  portfolios formed 
on the basis of factors previously documented to have explanatory ability o n returns 
                                                 
1 These are the transition nations that joined the EU on  1st May 2004, namely Czech Republic, Estonia, 
Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia,  and Slovenia  
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 4

 4 will inevitably  outperform regardless of whether the factors represent risk , are a 
product of investor irrationality , or merely a result of data mining . Black (1993) and 
MacKinlay (1995) also question whether the size effect and BE/ME factors hol d in 
general or  if the significance is merely sample specific. In response , Fama and French 
(1998) applied their earlier work to a global dataset consisting of 13 developed 
markets and 16 emerging markets. In the emerging markets Fama and French found 
that, while the significance of the size effect diminishes, there is still a significant 
relationship between BE/ME and returns. Claessens, Dasgupta and Glen (1993, 1995, 
1998) conducted a number of studies into stock market returns in emerging markets 
and also report that ME has less explanatory power in emerging markets than it has 
in developed capital markets.  
 
In this paper we propose  for an alternative to ME for use in markets where ME has 
been shown to have a poor explanatory ability on returns. As Fama French ( 1992 ) 
find that BE/ME is related to companies’ relative levels of profitability,  a measure of 
the quality of that profitability  is a logical alternative to the ME factor.  A substantial 
body of literature exists regarding  earnings quality and  accrua ls with authors such as 
Healy (1985), DeAngelo (1986), Jones (1991) and Dechow, Sloan and Sweeney (1995) 
all conclud ing that accruals are more susceptible to earnings manipulation  than cash  
from operations , whilst Khanchel El Mehdi  (2011) and Li, Niu, Zhan g, and Largay 
(2011) find evidence of accruals mispricing in the emerging markets of China and 
Tunisia respectively, indicating that NI/CFO can be used as a proxy for earnings 
quality . Furthermore, there may also be country level determinants  of earnings 
quality , for example Hope (2003) reports that legal origin and national culture are 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 5

 5 both important in explaining firm disclosure . In the EE EU , Ahmed (2009)  argues that 
there are substantial differences in earnings management practices between pre - 
and post -2004 EU members. Vellam (2004) explains how the accounting profession 
in Poland has struggled to make the transition from the old legalistic and rule -based 
procedures to the new investor -oriented standards of International Accounting 
Standards . Welc (2011 , P83 ) studied stocks listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange 
over the period 2000 -2009 and found evidence of aggressive accou nting practices, in 
particular  “there is an unusually low number of observations with the net margin 
between -1,5% and 0% and unusuall y high number of observations with the net 
margin between 0% and 2%, which suggests that companies with unmanaged 
earnings just below zero boost those earnings to the levels just above zero ’. Capkun 
et al.  (2008) examined the presence of earnings managemen t during the transition 
to IFRS in nine EU countries and found that Poland (the only EE EU  country in the 
study) was one of the nations which exhibited particularly high levels of earnings 
management. Garrod, Kosi and Valentincic (2008) examined private co mpanies in 
Slovenia and found a positive relationship between profitability and both the 
likelihood and magnitude of write -offs; the paper also reported that whilst larger 
companies have a greater propensity to write -off, the magnitude  of write -offs 
decrea ses with firm size , possibility due to the companies’ higher visibility. Kosi and 
Valentincic ( 2011 ) fin d that private firms in Slovenia are less likely to use financial 
reports to communicate performance and may instead use it for other objectives, 
partic ularly reducing tax costs.  
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 6

 6 This paper applies the Fama French (1993) model to the stock markets of the EE EU 
nations and extends previous literature by offering  a respeci fication  of the three 
factor model – using  NI/CFO as a proxy for earnings management  – that work s better 
for stocks listed on the stock markets of the EE EU nations . We find that NI/CFO has  
substantially greater explanatory  ability  than ME when incorporated into factor 
models.  
 
Methodology  
Equity r eturns  used for the dependent variables  in our dataset run from July 2005 to 
June 2010. For the independent variables, a ccounting data used for portfolio ranking 
runs from December 2004 to December 2008.  We use stocks included in the Stoxx 
EU Enlarged Total Market Index, which captures 95% of th e free float capitalization 
of stocks traded in the nations that have joined the EU since 2004. Some 
constituents of the Stoxx EU Enlarged Total Market Index were excluded as part of 
the trimming process, we removed stocks that:  
 Lack of pricing data. Stock s need Bloomberg prices for at least 24 months 
prior to June of year t, where year t is the year that the portfolios are 
formed. All stocks must still have a listing on 31st July 2010.  
 Missing one of the two items of fundamental data ( BE, CFO, NI or ME ) for 
the end of year t -1, if required for building the factor model under 
consideration.  
 We excluded stocks from Bulgaria, Cyprus, Malta, and Romania as our 
research is only concerned with the transition nations that joined the EU 
on 1st May 2004.  
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 7

 7  
We repl icate the portfolio ranking methodology of Fama and French (1993). For the 
BE/ME  computations , both BE and ME are measured using  Bloomberg  data from the 
end of December t -1. The high minus low (HML) portfolio is created to proxy returns 
related to BE/ME. T he stocks are sorted by BE/ME  and then split into two sets 
representing: bottom 50% (low) and top 50% (high). The portfolio HML is the weekly  
difference between average returns on the high and low portfolios  over the period 
between the first trading day of  July year t to the last trading day of June  year t+1 for 
each year in our dataset . Note that using weekly returns represents a departure 
from the methodology of Fama and French (1993) who use monthly returns. 
However, Fama French’s (1993) dataset covers a  substantially longer time horizon, 
the relatively recent development of stock markets in the EE EU nations means that 
our dataset does not have a sufficiently long time series to obtain statistically robust 
results using monthly data, hence the decision t o use weekly data.  
 
The portfolio small minus big (SMB) is also calculated in line with the methodology of 
Fama and French (1993). ME is calculated on the last trading day of Jun e in year t. 
Stocks are then sorted and placed  into small (S) and big (B) por tfolios. ME is 
measured on 30th June year t, we specify ME in  Euros  to ensure comparability across 
stocks listed in different countries . We extend Fama and French’s (1993) work and 
create  a portfolios based on NI/CFO, in order to test whether this proxy fo r earnings 
management has explanatory ability on equity returns for stocks listed on the stock 
markets of the EE EU nations. In line with the calculation of BE/ME, both NI and CFO 
are measured as of December of year t -1. The stocks are sorted by NI/CFO and  then 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 8

 8 split into two sets representing top 50% (large) and bo ttom 50% (small). The 
portfolio  large minus small (LMS) is the weekly difference between average returns 
on the large and small portfolios over the period between the first trading day of July 
year t to the last trading day of June year t+1.  
 
For the  excess returns (market portfolio [RM] – risk free rate [RF]), RF is the weekly 
yield on the one month eurozone generic government bond, calculated as:  
RF=(1+ Rfm)(1/n )-1 
 
Where:  
 RF = Weekly risk fre e rate  
 Rfm = Monthly risk free rate quoted on an annualized basis  
n = Number of weeks in the year  
RM is calculated as the weekly return on all stocks in the Stoxx EU Enlarged Total 
Market Index.  
 
The stocks are then split into 25 portfolios. For each year  of our dataset, BE/ME is 
used to allocate stocks into one of five BE/ME quintiles with portfolio 1 containing 
the highest BE/ME stocks and portfolio 5 containing the lowest BE/ME stocks. We 
repeat the ranking process to allocate each stock to a quintile  for both  ME and 
NI/CFO  (hereafter collectively referred to as the third  factor ) for each year  t. We 
then form  two sets of 25 portfolios  (one set based on BE/ME and ME, the other 
based on BE/ME and NI/CFO)  at the intersections of the five BE/ME and two sets of 
five third  factor portfolios.  
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 9

 9 Following the portfolio ranking process, we build two sets of three univariate factor 
models in order to determine exactly what each va riable contributes to the model, 
with both sets containing the regressions:  
E(rp) = RF  + β[RM(t) - RF(t)] + e(t)  
 E(rp) = RF + hHML(t) + e(t)  
Where:  
E(rp) = expected portfolio return  
 
And the third regression being one of:  
E(rp) = RF + s SMB (t) + e(t)  
E(rp) = RF + lLM S(t) + e(t)  
 
Then we apply  the following three  factor model s: 
E(rp) = RF + β[RM(t) - RF(t)] + sSMB(t) + hHML(t) + e(t)  
And:  
E(rp) = RF + β[RM(t) - RF(t)] + lLMS(t) + hHML(t) + e(t)  
 
Dataset  
The descriptive statistics associated with our dataset are shown in Table 1  
 
<Table 1 Here>  
 
The number of stocks in our dataset increases su bstantially with each year. Poland 
has by far the largest economy of the EE EU nations and therefore it is of no surprise 
to see that the majority of stocks in our dataset are listed on the Warsaw Stock 
Exchange. The stock markets of Czech Republic, Hungar y, Latvia and Slovakia have a 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 10

 10 largely constant number of shares in the dataset. The stock markets of Estonia, 
Lithuania and Slovenia have seen a substantial increase in the number of shares in 
our database, albeit from a low base.  
 
Average returns were pos itive over the time horizons 2005 -2006 and 2006 -2007, and 
turned negative in 2007 -2008 and 2008 -2009. The EE EU nations were certainly not 
immune from the economic crisis that gripped the world in 2008 and the ensuing 
savage bear market had a highly negati ve effect on returns.  
 
The EE EU region’s stock markets all experienced a volatility spike in 2008 -2009. 
Total average weekly standard deviation is very similar for each of the other four 
years in our dataset.  
 
The returns of stocks listed in many of the  nations covered by our dataset exhibit 
negative skewness, although the stocks that are listed in Poland and Slovenia have 
positive average skewness values. The large weight that stocks listed in Poland carry 
in our dataset means that the sign of the avera ge skewness values is the same as it is 
for Poland for every year in our dataset , even when the average skewness for the 
majority of exchanges in our dataset have a different skewness sign. The stock 
markets of Latvia and Estonia have particularly high neg ative skewness values, but 
the dataset only contains a small number of stocks from these nations, so it is 
difficult to make a robust inference from this.    
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 11

 11 Our dataset covers an entire stock market cycle  and therefore our results hold 
throughout both ri sing and falling markets. Furthermore, as accounting standards 
change substantially year -to-year, the relatively short time period  covered by our 
dataset has the advantage of being less affected by changes in accounting standards.  
Also, s urvivorship bias i s a standard criticism of the Fama French  (1993)  model, the 
EE EU dataset suffers from this problem to a lesser extent as we cover a shorter time 
horizon and few companies were  delisted during this period.  
 
Results  
The results of the univariate regressions  using the Fama French (1993) variables  
(beta and portfolios ranked on BE/ME and ME) are shown in Table 2.  
 
<Table 2 Here>  
 
Of the three univariate regressions run in Table 2, beta has the greatest explanatory 
ability , although  the R2 value of 0.11 indica tes that there is substantial scope within 
the model for the inclusion of additional factors. Predictably, beta’s relationship with 
returns is positive for all portfolios.  
 
For BE/ME, our results corroborate the findings of Fama French ’s (1993) two factor  
regression  – which excludes beta  (i.e. E(rp) = RF + sSMB(t) + hHML(t) + e(t) ) –  in that 
the BE/ME regression slope coefficient is negative for all 25 of the portfolios. While 
we find that BE/ME t -stats become more significant for high BE/ME portfolios,  in 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 12

 12 contrast  Fama French (1993)  report that low BE/ME portfolios return the highest t -
stats.  
 
For ME , we find that the slope coefficients are actually negative for low ME 
portfolios , and t-stats are the highest  for extreme low and high  portfolios. The 
avera ge R2 of the 25 ME portfolios is only 0.03,  indicating that the ME factor lacks 
the explanatory ability of beta and BE/ME. Our findings corroborate the findings of 
previous studies which found BE/ME, but not ME, to be effective at explaining stock 
market r eturns  for stocks listed on the stock markets of developing nations .  
 
In an extension of Fama and French ’s work, we now propose  an alternative to the 
poorly -performing ME factor  by form ing portfolios based on NI/CFO. NI/CFO tells 
investors little about a company’s performance, however, it is widely used by 
investors to test for “earnings quality ’ and possible accounting manipulation . The 
results from this model are shown in Table 3.  
 
<Table 3 Here > 
 
The univariate b eta and BE/ME regressions return similar  results to those in Table 2, 
whilst NI/CFO performs substantially  better than ME. As expected , NI/CFO has  strong 
explanatory ability for the higher NI/CFO portfolios: investors perceive big 
differences between net income and cash flow from operations as b eing associated 
with accounting manipulation. Therefore , we believe that NI/CFO represents a risk 
factor.  
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 13

 13  
Following the univariate regressions, we now form two three factor models. One 
model is based upon Fama French (1993), the other replaces the ME ter m with 
NI/CFO. The results are shown in Table 4.  
 
<Table 4  Here > 
 
For both the three factor models, the individual components perform similarly in a 
multivariate setting to how they did in the univariate regressions. The model s’ 
components retain the sign ificance of the univariate regressions  in Tables 2 and 3 
and the direction of the regression slope coefficients does not change substantially. 
As with the univariate regressions, NI/CFO performs substantially  better  than ME  in 
terms of R2. The model which includes the NI/CFO factor returns substantially higher 
R2 values than the model including the ME factor: it is clear that NI/CFO has 
substantially greater explanatory ability than ME.  
 
In order to ensure that our results are not distorted by mutlicolline arity, we examine 
correlations between variables and also calculate variance inflation factors. The 
results are shown in Table 5.  
 
<Table 5 Here>  
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 14

 14 The correlation between SMB and HML is actually greater than it is between LMS 
and HML. LMS is more correlat ed with market excess returns that SMB, but this may 
be due to LMS’s greater explanatory ability on returns.  
 
In Panel B, the variance inflation factors (VIF) are low for the variables in both the 
factor models.  
 
Table 5 Panel A shows that the factors RM-RF, SMB, HML,  and LMS are largely 
uncorrelated with one another; the VIF tests in Table 5 Panel B also return low 
values, indicating lack of multicolinearity. Thus we are confident that t he regressions 
in Table 4 , which utilize three factor models , provid e three independent factors with 
which to explain equity returns.  
 
Discussion of Results  
As a minimum, our results show that NI/CFO is better than ME at explaining equity 
returns for stocks listed on the stock markets of the EE EU nations. Beyond this, we  
believe that our findings raise questions about the pricing efficiency of the stock 
markets of the EE EU nations. There are many reasons unrelated to earnings 
management why NI can diverge from CFO: NI/CFO can only be considered a crude 
proxy for accounti ng manipulation.  As Fama (1970) defines an efficient market as 
one which “fully refl ects’ all available information,  it could be argued that investors’ 
suspicions  of reported NI prevent s all available information from being discounted 
into share prices.   
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 15

 15 Conclusio ns 
Our application of the Fama French (1993) model to the EE EU nations show s that 
while beta and BE/ME do have significant explanatory ability on returns, ME 
performs poorly  for stocks  listed on the stock markets of the EE EU . These results 
corroborate  the results from  previous studies that have applied the Fama French 
(1993) to emerging markets. We show that  replacing the ME factor with NI/CFO 
yields results that can be considered substantially more  statistically significant . Our 
results can be employed in any function that requires expected equity returns in the 
EE EU nations, and potentially applied to the numerous markets in which ME has 
proved to have a poor e xplanatory ability on returns. Furthermore, w hile NI/CFO is 
rarely used in academia,  it is standard in literature aimed at  financial market 
practitioners  and is regarded as a n indicator of accounting manipulation. We 
hypothesize that stock prices do not incorporate all available information because 
investors are not able to determine whic h companies’ net income figures are reliable 
and have to resort to crude approximations such as NI/CFO.  
 
The poor performance  of the Fama French (1993) model in the EE EU  nations and 
the success of our respecified models  has significant ramifications and opens up 
many interesting research questions. We identify two of them. Firstly, an important 
extension of our work would be to apply the respecified models to another emerging 
markets dataset, for which ME has previously shown to have poor explanatory 
ability. Secondly, as we have found intriguing  results using financial ratios  in the EE 
EU, it would be interesting to examine how financial ratios perform in the region in a 
non-factor model -based scenario.  
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 16

 16  
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 17

 17 References  
Ahmed, S ., ‘Determinants of the quali ty of disclosed earnings and informativeness across  
Transitional Europe ’, 32nd Annual Meeting of the European Accounting Association, Tampere,  
Finland  (2009 ) 
 Banz, R.W., ‘The relationship between return and market value of common stocks ’, Journal of Fin ancial 
Economics,   (1981)  Vol. 9, pp. 3-18 
 Black, F., ‘Beta and return ’, Journal of Portfolio Management,   (1993)  Vol. 20, 8 -18 
 Capkun, V. et al. , ‘Earnings Management and Value Relevance During the Mandatory Transition from 
Local GAAPs to IFRS in Eu rope’. Available at SSRN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1125716   (2008)  
 Claessens, S. et  al., ‘Stock price behavior  in emerging markets ’, paper presented at the World Bank 
Symposium, ‘Portfolio Investment in  Developing Countries ’  (1993)  
 Claessens, S. et al., ‘Return behavior in emerging stock markets ’, The World Bank Economic Review 9, 
(1995), pp. 131-151 
 Claessens, S. et al., ‘The cross -section of stock returns: Evidence from the emerging markets ’, Emerging 
Markets Quarterly, Vol. 2, (1998),  pp. 4-13 
 DeAngelo, L.E.  ‘Accounting Numbers as Market Valuation Substitutes: A Study of Management Buyouts 
of Public Stockholders ’, The Accounting Review, Vol. 61, No. 3, (1986), pp. 400-420 
 DeBont, W. and T haler, R. ‘Further Evidence on Investor Overreaction to Stock Market Seasonality ’, 
Journal of Finance, Vol. 46, No. 5, (1987), pp. 57-82 
 Dechow, P. et al. ‘Detecting Earnings Management ’, The Accounting Review, Vol. 70, No. 2, (1995), pp. 
193-225 
 Fama, E., ‘Efficient Capital Markets: A Review of Theory and Empirical Work ’, Journal of Finance, Vol. 
25, No. 2,   (1970) , pp. 383-417 
 
Fama, E. and French, K., ‘The Economic Fundamentals of Size and Book -to-Market Equity ’, Working 
Paper (University of Chica go, Chicago, IL) , (1992 ) 
 
Fama, E. and French, K., ‘Common risk factors in the returns on stocks and bonds ’, Journal of Financial 
Economics, Vol. 33, (1993) , pp. 3-56 
 Fama, E. and French, K. ‘Value versus growth: the international evidence ’, Journal of  Finance, Vol. 53, 
(1998),  pp. 1975 -1999  
 
Garrod, N., et al.,  ‘Asset Write -Offs in the Absence of Agency Problems. Journal of Business Finance & 
Accounting ’, Vol. 35,  No. 3 -4, (2008),  pp. 307–330 
 Haugen, R.A., ‘The New Finance: The Case Against Efficien t Markets ’, Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, 
N.J   (1995)  
 Healy, P.M. , ‘The Effects of Bonus Schemes on Accounting Decisions ’, Journal of Accounting and 
Economics, Vol. 7, (1985) pp. 85-107 
 
Hope, O. ‘ Firm-Level Disclosure and the Relative Roles of Cult ure and Legal Origin ’, Journal of 
International Management and Accounting,  Vol 13, No 3, (2003), pp. 218-248 
 Jones, J., ‘Earnings Management During Import Relief Investigations ’, Journal of Accounting Research, 
Vol. 29, No. 2,   (1991) , pp. 193-228 
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 18

 18 Kosi, U. and Valentincic, A. ‘Write -Offs and Profitability in Private Firms – Disentangling the Impact of 
Tax-Minimization Incentives ’ (2011). Available at SSRN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1796943  
 
Khanchel El Me hdi, I., ‘An Examination of the Naive -Investor Hypothesis in Accruals Mispricing 
in Tunisian Firms ’, Journal of International Management and Accounting, Vol 22, No 2, (2011), pp. 
131-164. 
 Lakonishok, J. et al., ‘Contrarian Investment, Extrapolation, and  Risk’, Journal of Finance, Vol. 49, No. 5, 
(1994) , pp. 1541 -1578  
 
Li, Y. Niu, et al, ‘ Earnings Management and the Accrual Anomaly: Evidence from China ’, Journal of 
International Financial Management and Accounting, Vol 22, No 3, (2011), pp. 205-245.  
 MacKinlay, C., ‘Multifactor models do not explain deviations from the CAPM ’, Journal of Financial 
Economics, Vol. 38,   (1995) , pp. 3-28 
 Nissim, D. and Penman, S. , ‘Ratio analysis and equity valuation: from research to practice ’, Review of 
Accounting Stud ies, Vol. 6, (2001), pp. 109-154 
 Rosenberg, B. Reid, K. and Lanstein, R., ‘Persuasive evidence of market inefficiency ’, Journal of 
Portfolio Management, Vol. 11, (1985) , pp. 9-17 
 Sharpe, W.F., ‘Capital Asset Prices: A of Market Equilibrium Under Cond itions of Risk ’, Journal of 
Finance, Vol. 19, No. 3,   (1964) , pp. 425-42 
 
Vellam, I., ‘Implementation of International Accounting Standards in Poland: Can True  
Convergence be Achieved in Practice? ’, Accounting in Europe, Vol. 1, No. 1,  (2004) , pp. 143-167.  
 
Welc, J., ‘Are Polish Public Companies “Cooking The Books ’? The Evidence From Annual Earnings 
Thresholds ’, International Business & Economics Research Journal , Vol. 10, No. 3,   (2011) , pp. 83-90.  
 
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 19

 19 Table 1  
Descriptive Statistics  
 
Number of Observati ons 
     
 2005 -2006  2006 -2007  2007 -2008  2008 -2009  2009 -2010  
Czech Republic                              5                                5                                6                                6                                6    
Estonia                              1                                6                                8                                8                                9    
Hungary                              7                                7                                7                                7                                7    
Lithuania                              1                                9                                9                                9                                9    
Latvia                              1                                2                                2                                2                                2    
Poland                           77                             93                          101                          114                          119    
Slovakia                              1                                1                                1                                1                                1    
Slovenia                              3                                5                                8                             10                             12    
Total                           96                          128                          142                          157                          165    
      Average Weekly Return  
     
 2005 -2006  2006 -2007  2007 -2008  2008 -2009  2009 -2010  
Czech Republic                   0,003                     0,003    -                0,003    -                0,007                     0,005    
Estonia  -                0,007                     0,006    -                0,010    -                0,019                     0,011    
Hungary                   0,007                     0,002    -                0,004    -                0,008                     0,006    
Lithuania                   0,001                     0,006    -                0,003    -                0,023                     0,011    
Latvia  -                0,002                     0,005     -                0,005    -                0,018                     0,012    
Poland                   0,011                     0,012    -                0,009    -                0,010                     0,006    
Slovakia  -                0,002                     0,001    -                0,001    -                0,008    -                0,002    
Slovenia                   0,000                     0,013    -                0,003    -                0,016    -                0,005    
Average                   0,010                     0,011    -                0,007    -                0,012                     0,005    
      Average Weekly Standard Deviation  
     
 2005 -2006  2006 -2007  2007 -2008  2008 -2009  2009 -2010  
Czech Republic                   0,037                     0,040                     0,033                     0,078                     0,037    
Estonia                   0,019                     0,040                     0,038                     0,088                     0,067    
Hungary                   0,050                     0,049                     0,036                     0,081                     0,048    
Lithuania                   0,027                     0,036                     0,040                     0,086                     0,069    
Latvia                   0,026                     0,037                     0,044                     0,072                     0,088    
Poland                   0,053                     0,058                     0,061                     0,081                     0,053    
Slovakia                   0,018                     0,023                     0,012                     0,060                     0,078    
Slovenia                   0,019                     0,033                     0,040                     0,064                     0,039    
Average                   0,050                     0,053                     0,055                     0,080                     0,053    
      Average Weekly Skewness  
     
 2005 -2006  2006-2007  2007 -2008  2008 -2009  2009 -2010  
Czech Republic  -                0,148    -                0,599    -                0,347    -                0,797    -                0,142    
Estonia  -                3,524    -                0,447    -                0,264    -                0,337                     0,853    
Hungary  -                0,281    -                0,453    -                0,081    -                0,309    -                0,205    
Lithuania                   0,673    -                0,012                     0,255    -                0,908                     1,573    
Latvia  -                1,403                     1,020    -                1,607    -                1,040    -                1,136    
Poland                   0,374                     0,345    -                0,161    -                0,256                     0,345    
Slovakia  -                0,475    -                1,599    -                0,306    -                1,224    -                1,791    
Slovenia                   0,360                     1,414    -                0,212    -                0,493                     0,318    
Average                   0,233                     0,239    -                0,169    -                0,352                     0,366    
 
Stocks are taken from the Stoxx EU Enlarged Total Market Index, we exclude stocks from Bulgaria, 
Cyprus, Malta, and Romania. We also exclude stocks without a time series of 24 months of prices 
prior to the start of July year t, where y ear t is the year that the portfolios are formed.  
Average weekly returns are based on natural logarithms of Bloomberg last prices and are calculated 
over the first Friday of July year t to last Friday of June year t+1. These returns are used to calculate 
average weekly standard deviation and average weekly skewness .  
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 20

 20 Table 2  
Univariate Regressions  Using Beta, Book Value of Equity to Market Value of Equity (BE/ME) , and Market Capitalization (ME)  
                    Average Number of Observations  
           
 Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
        Low              2.00                   5.00                   6.60                   5.80                   8.40      
        4              5.20                   5.00                   4.80                   4.80                   7.40      
        3              7.80                   4.60                   5.00                   4.20                   6.00      
        2              7.60                   5.40                   5.40                   5.60                   3.20      
        High               5.40                   7.00                   5.80                   6.80                   2.80      
                                                
R(t) - RF(t) = α + β[RM(t) - RF(t)] + e(t)  
    R(t) - RF(t) = α + hHML(t) + e(t)  
    R(t) - RF(t) = α + SMB(t) + e(t)  
   
       HML  = (BE/ME)  
     SMB  = ME (€) (June)  
    β 
      h 
      s 
     
 ME (€)  
      ME (€)  
      ME (€)  
    (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh 
 (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
 (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
Low  0,2 (3,24)   0,3 (5,36)   0,26 (5,68)   0,26 (4,77)   0,35 (5,56)  
 Low  -0,55 ( -2,62)   -0,31 ( -1,58)   -0,05 ( -0,29)   0,05 (0,27)   0,34 (1,52)  
 Low  -0,81 ( -4,75)   -0,15 ( -0,93)   0,06 (0,42)   0,49 (3,11)   1,24 (7,43)  
4  0,24 (5,57)   0,34 (6,04)   0,3 (5,97)   0,28 (4,78)   0,32 (5,15)  
 4  -0,3 (-2)   -0,59 ( -2,95)   -0,24 ( -1,38)   -0,32 ( -1,6)   -0,15 ( -0,68)  
 4  -0,52 ( -4,22)   -0,34 ( -2,02)   0,05 (0,37)   0,1 (0,61)   0,78 (4,49)  
3  0,33 (6,06)   0,3 (6,03)   0,27 (4,62)   0,34 (5,24)   0,23 (4,8)  
 3  -0,84 ( -4,44)   -0,49 ( -2,78)   -0,94 ( -4,83)   -0,51 ( -2,24)   -0,56 ( -3,44)  
 3  -0,84 ( -5,43)   -0,4 (-2,72)   -0,15 ( -0,87)   0,39 (2,06)   0,41 (3,01)  
2  0,37 (5,74)   0,33 (6, 29)   0,32 (5,52)   0,31 (6,18)   0,3 (4,12)  
 2  -1,42 ( -6,77)   -0,9 (-5,06)   -1,15 ( -6,03)   -0,79 ( -4,51)   -1,41 ( -5,92)  
 2  -1,07 ( -6,01)   -0,13 ( -0,87)   -0,14 ( -0,85)   0,32 (2,12)   0,76 (3,71)  
High   0,26 (5,37)   0,4 (7,98)   0,43 (6,99)   0,36 (6,63)   0,55 (5,94)  
 High   -1,09 ( -7)   -1,23 ( -7,12)   -1,45 ( -6,95)   -1,19 ( -6,63)   -1 (-3,05)  
 High   -0,51 ( -3,69)   -0,36 ( -2,32)   0,12 (0,63)   0,18 (1,1)   0,81 (2,97)  
                     R2 
      R2 
   
    R2 
   
   
 ME (€)  
      ME (€ ) 
      ME (€)  
    (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
 (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
 (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
Low                0.03                   0.09                   0.10                   0.07                   0.09    
 Low                   0.02                      0.01                      0.00                      0.00                      0.00    
 Low                0.07                   0.00                   0.00                   0.03                   0.16    
4                0.09                   0.11                   0.11                   0.07                   0.08    
 4                   0.01                      0.03                      0.00                      0.01                      0.00    
 4                0.05                   0.01                   0.00                   0.00                   0.06    
3                0.11                   0.11                   0.07                   0.08                   0.07    
 3                   0.06                      0.02                      0.07                      0.01                      0.04    
 3                0.09                   0.02                   0.00                   0.01                   0.03    
2                0.10                   0.12                   0.09                   0.11                   0.05    
 2                   0.13                      0.08                      0.11                      0.06                      0.10    
 2                0.11                   0.00                   0.00                   0.01                   0.04    
High                 0.09                   0.18                   0.14                   0.13                   0.11    
 High                    0.14                      0.14                      0.14                      0.13                      0.03    
 High                 0.04                   0.01                   0.00                   0.00                   0.03    
                    Average 
R2                0.11    
     Average 
R2                   0.05    
     Average 
R2                0.03    
    Weighted 
Average 
R2                0.11    
     Weighted 
Average 
R2                   0.06    
     Weighted 
Average 
R2                0.03    
     
The 25 size -book -to-market (ME -BE/ME ) portfolios are formed in the following way. Each year t from 2005 to 2010 BE/ME (measured at the end of December  year t -1) is used to 
assign stocks to one of five BE/ME quintiles, 1 being the highest  BE/ME portfolios and 5 being the lowest. The same procedure is followed for ME, w hich is measured  in Euros at the 
end of June in year t, and stocks are assigned  to one of five ME quintiles.  
RM is the weekly return on the Stoxx EU Enlarged Total Market Index  
RF is the weekly yield on the 1 month eurozone generic government bond  
HML is the difference between returns on high BE/ME (H)  and low BE/ME portfolios (L). SMB  is the difference between the returns on  small ME (S) and  large ME (B) portfolios .  
Average R2 is the arithmetic mean of the R2s from the 25 ME -BE/ME portfolios calculated on an equally weighted basis.  
Weighted R2 is the arithmetic mean of the R2s from the 25 ME -BE/ME portfolios calculated weighted by the number of observations from each portfolio.  
For β, s, and h the number not in parenthesis is the regression's slop e coefficient, the number in parenthesis  is the  regression  t-statistic .
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 21

 21  Table 3  
Univariate Regressions Using Beta, Book Value of Equity to Market Value of Equity ( BE/ME ), and  Net Income to Cash from Operations ( NI/CFO ) 
                    Average Number of Observations  
          
 Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
       Low            3,800                 4,000                 6,800                 6,000                 6,000      
       4            6,400                 5,600                 5,400                 3,600                 5,200      
       3            5,200                 5,400                 4,200                 6,200                 5,200      
       2            6,600                 4,400                 4,600                 4,800                 5,800      
       High             4,600                 6,800                 5,200                 5,600                 4,200      
                                               
R(t) - RF(t) = α + β[RM(t) - RF(t)] + e(t)  
    R(t) - RF(t) = α + hHML  (t) + e(t)  
    R(t) - RF(t) = α + sLMS (t) + e(t)  
   
       HML  = (BE/ME)  
     LMS  = NI/CFO  
     β 
      h 
      s 
     
 NI/CFO  
      NI/CFO  
      NI/CFO  
    (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
 (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
 (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
Low  0,29 (4,17)   0,36 (5,7)   0,25 (5,14)   0,33 (5,59)   0,26 (4,65)  
 Low  0.01 (0.04)   0,5 (2,27)   -0,12 ( -0,72)   0,13 (0,61)   0,37 (1,91)  
 Low  0,41 (1,46)   0,57 (2,17)   1,04 (5,42)   1,71 (7,69)   1,89 (9, 45)  
4  0,28 (6,2)   0,24 (5,1)   0,42 (6,69)   0,29 (4,31)   0,31 (4,99)  
 4  0,04 (0,26)   0,04 (0,25)   -0,41 ( -1,82)   -0,42 ( -1,84)   -0,42 ( -1,96)  
 4  0,62 (3,24)   0,57 (3,02)   1,54 (6,18)   1,8 (7,2)   1,71 (7,41)  
3  0,33 (5,44)   0,33 (6,16)   0,32 (6,78)   0,21 (4,77)   0,34 (5,78)  
 3  -0,66 ( -3,15)   -0,38 ( -1,99)   -0,5 (-3,02)   -0,34 ( -2,17)   -0,93 ( -4,66)  
 3  0,89 (3,61)   0,85 (3,82)   0,71 (3,62)   1,27 (7,57)   1,9 (8,85)  
2  0,33 (6,14)   0,3 (4,95)   0,3 (4,95)   0,34 (5,64)   0,36 (6,23)  
 2  -1,11 ( -6,31)   -0,84 ( -4,17)   -1,09 ( -5,57)   -1,03 ( -5)   -1,08 ( -5,51)  
 2  1,05 (4,89)   0,76 (3,14)   1,3 (5,57)   1,38 (5,74)   1,64 (7,35)  
High   0,31 (5,25)   0,35 (6,41)   0,33 (6,31)   0,5 (8,11)   0,47 (7,05)  
 High   -0,86 ( -4,35)   -1,23 ( -6,89)   -0,88 ( -4,84)   -1,35 ( -6,29)   -1,39 ( -6,15)  
 High   0,75 (3,16)   1,1 (4,98)   0,99 (4,56)   2,12 (8,85)   2,19 (8,62)  
                    R2 
      R2 
   
    R2 
   
   
 NI/CFO  
      NI/CFO  
      NI/CFO  
    (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
 (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
 (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
Low                0.07                   0.12                   0.10                   0.12                   0.08    
 Low                   0.00                      0.02                       0.00                      0.00                      0.01    
 Low                0.00                   0.02                   0.11                   0.20                   0.28    
4                0.14                   0.10                   0.16                   0.07                   0.09    
 4                   0.00                      0.00                      0.01                      0.01                      0.01    
 4                0.04                   0.03                   0.14                   0.18                   0.19    
3                0.11                   0.14                   0.16                   0.09                   0.12    
 3                   0.04                      0.01                      0.03                      0.02                      0.08    
 3                0.05                   0.06                   0.05                   0.20                   0.26    
2                0.14                   0.09                   0.09                   0.12                   0.14    
 2                   0.14                      0.07                      0.12                      0.09                      0.11    
 2                0.09                   0.04                   0.12                   0.12                   0.19    
High                0.10                   0.15                   0.14                   0.22                   0.18    
 High                    0.07                      0.17                      0.09                      0.14                      0.14    
 High                0.04                   0.09                   0.08                   0.26                   0.25    
                    
Average R2                0.12    
     Average R2                   0.05    
     Average R2                0.12    
    
Weighted 
Average R2                0.12    
     Weighted Average R2                   0.06    
     Weighted 
Average R2                0.13    
     
The 25 net -income -to-cashflow -from -operations -book -to-market (NI/CFO -BE/ME) portfolios are formed in the  following way. Each year t from 2005 to 2010 BE/ME (measured at the 
end of December year t -1) is used to assign stocks to one of five BE/ME quintiles, 1 being the highest BE/ME portfolios and 5 being the lowest. The same procedure is followed for 
NI/CFO, which is also measured at the end of December in year t -1, and stocks are assigned to one of five NI/CFO quintiles.  
RM is the weekly return on the Stoxx EU Enlarged Total Market Index  
RF is the weekly yield on the 1 month eurozone generic government bond  
HML is the difference between the returns on high BE/ME (H) and low BE/ME (L) portfolios. LMS  is the difference b etween returns on high NI/CFO (L ) and low NI/CFO portfolios (S).  
Average R2 is the arithmetic mean of the R2s from the 25 NI/CFO -BE/ME portfo lios calculated on an equally weighted basis.  
Weighted R2 is the arithmetic mean of the R2s from the 25  NI/CFO -BE/ME portfolios calculated weighted by the number of observations from each portfolio.  
For β, s, and h the number not in parenthesis is the regression's slope coefficient, the number in parenthesis is the regression t -statistic.  
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 22

 22 Table 4  
Factor Model Multiple Regressions  
 
Panel A  
BEME ME 
     Panel B  
BEME NICFO  
     R(t) - RF(t) = α + β[RM(t) - RF(t)] + hHML (t) + sSMB 
(t) + e(t)  
  R(t) - RF(t) = α + β[RM(t) - RF(t)] + hHML (t) + sLMS  (t) 
+ e(t)  
  
BMS  = S/FA  
      BMS  = 
NI/CFO  
     
β 
     β 
     
 ME 
     NI/CFO  
    
(BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
Low  0,19 (3,1)   0,3 (5,16)   0,26 
(5,68)   0,27 
(4,86)   0,36 
(6,32)  Low  0,29 
(4,08)   0,39 (6,1)   0,22 
(4,65)   0,3 (5,43)   0,23 
(4,77)  
4  0,24 
(5,62)   0,32 
(5,69)   0,29 
(5,76)   0,27 
(4,52)   0,31 
(5,12)  4  0,28 
(6,05)   0,23 
(4,93)   0,37 
(6,06)   0,22 
(3,52)   0,24 
(4,22)  
3  0,31 
(5,89)   0,29 
(5,78)   0,23 
(3,93)   0,32 
(4,86)   0,2 (4,26)  3  0,28 
(4,67)   0,3 (5,55)   0,29 
(6,05)   0,17 
(3,94)   0,25 
(4,73)  
2  0,31 
(5,37)   0,29 
(5,61)   0,27 
(4,74)   0,27 
(5,56)   0,22 (3,3)  2  0,25 
(5,02)   0,24 
(4,09)   0,21 
(3,78)   0,26 
(4,56)   0,27 
(5,13)  
High   0,21 
(4,67)   0,35 
(7,33)   0,36 
(6,23)   0,3 (5,87)   0,5 (5,5)  High   0,25 
(4,37)   0,27 
(5,29)   0,27 
(5,32)   0,39 
(7,31)   0,35 
(6,06)  
        
     
h BE/ME  
    h BE/ME  
    
 ME 
     NI/CFO  
    
(BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
Low  -0,18 ( -
0,85)   -0,1 ( -
0,48)   0,09 
(0,58)   0,04 
(0,22)   0,13 
(0,65)  Low  0,2 (0,84)   0,78 
(3,71)   0,1 (0,65)   0,47 
(2,58)   0,7 (4,31)  
4  0,01 
(0,09)   -0,31 ( -
1,55)   -0,1 ( -
0,57)   -0,22 ( -
1,07)   -0,25 ( -
1,22)  4  0,26 
(1,67)   0,23 
(1,44)   -0,06 ( -
0,28)   -0,12 ( -
0,57)   -0,11 ( -
0,59)  
3  -0,41 ( -
2,23)   -0,2 ( -
1,15)   -0,83 ( -
4,1)   -0,5 ( -
2,19)   -0,64 ( -
3,94)  3  -0,43 ( -
2,11)   -0,14 ( -
0,75)   -0,28 ( -
1,82)   -0,12 ( -
0,86)   -0,61 ( -
3,54)  
2  -0,95  (-
4,67)   -0,75 ( -
4,19)   -1,04 ( -
5,3)   -0,81 ( -
4,69)   -1,68 ( -
7,25)  2  -0,88 ( -
5,33)   -0,64 ( -
3,26)   -0,86 ( -
4,62)   -0,76 ( -
3,94)   -0,78 ( -
4,45)  
High   -0,86 ( -
5,47)   -0,98 ( -
5,88)   -1,39 ( -
6,83)   -1,18 ( -
6,68)   -1,07 ( -
3,35)  High   -0,66 ( -
3,42)   -0,99 ( -
5,94)   -0,64 ( -
3,76)   -0,94 ( -
5,35)   -1 (-5,19)  
        
     
s ME 
    l NI/CFO  
    
 ME 
     NI/CFO  
    
(BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
Low  -0,76 ( -
4,35)   -0,12 ( -
0,74)   0,04 
(0,32)   0,48 (3,1)   1,22 
(7,51)  Low  0,27 (1)   0,47 
(1,89)   0,93 
(4,95)   1,61 
(7,54)   1,86 
(9,74)  
4  -0,51 ( -
4,23)   -0,25 ( -
1,55)   0,09 
(0,61)   0,17 
(0,97)   0,85 
(4,95)  4  0,5 (2,74)   0,48 
(2,57)   1,33 
(5,59)   1,66 
(6,67)   1,56 
(6,87)  
3  -0,73 ( -
4,91)   -0,34 ( -
2,38)   0,06 
(0,34)   0,52 
(2,78)   0,57 
(4,28)  3  0,67 
(2,82)   0,66 (3,1)   0,51 
(2,75)   1,16 
(7,01)   1,67 
(8,24)  
2  -0,83 ( -
4,97)   0,05 
(0,36)   0,11 
(0,69)   0,52 
(3,69)   1,17 
(6,17)  2  0,78 
(3,99)   0,53 
(2,28)   1,05 
(4,79)   1,12 
(4,95)   1,37 
(6,66)  
High  -0,3 ( -2,3)   -0,12 ( -
0,84)   0,46 
(2,77)   0,47 
(3,24)   1,08 
(4,14)  High   0,51 
(2,27)   0,8 (4,07)   0,74 
(3,67)   1,77 
(8,49)   1,84 
(8,12)  
        
     
R2 
     R2 
     
 ME 
     NI/CFO  
    
(BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  (BE/ME)  Low 4 3 2 HIgh  
Low            0.10                0.08                0.09                0.10                0.25    Low            0.06                0.17                0.18                0.30                0.38    
4            0.14                0.12                0.10                 0.07                0.15    4            0.17                0.12                0.26                0.22                0.25    
3            0.21                0.13                0.11                0.11                0.14    3            0.15                0.17                0.20                0.25                0.37    
2            0.26                0.16                0.17                0.18                0.23    2            0.29                0.15                0.25                0.26                0.35    
High             0.21                0.27                0.25                0.24                0.16    High             0.16                0.32                0.24                0.49                0.44    
        
     
Average R2            0.16    
    Average R2            0.25    
    Weighted 
Average R2            0.17    
    Weighted 
Average R2            0.25    
     
Panel A shows the multivariate regressions of the computations in table 4.  
Panel B shows th e multivariate regressions of the computations in table 5.  
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 23

 23 Table 5  
Multi colinearity  Tests  
 
Panel A  
Correlations  
ME       NI/CFO        
  SMB  HML  RM-RF   LMS  HML  RM-RF 
SMB  - 
   LMS  - 
   
HML  -0.28  -   HML  -0.12  -   
Market Excess Returns  0.01  -0.18  - Market Excess Returns  0.14  -0.18  - 
 
 
Panel B  
Variance Inflation Factors  
ME     NI/CFO      
Dependent Variable  Independent  
Variable(s)  VIF Dependent Variable  Independent  
Variable(s)  VIF 
HML  SMB      1.09    HML  LMS      1.01    
HML  RM-RF     1.03    HML  RM-RF     1.03    
HML  SMB and RM-RF     1.13    HML  LMS and RM-RF     1.04    
RM-RF SMB and HML      1.03    Market Excess Returns  LMS and HML      1.04    
SMB  HML and RM-RF     1.09    LMS  HML and RM-RF     1.03    
 
RM is the weekly return on the Stoxx EU Enlarged Total Market Index  
RF is the weekly yield on the 1 month eurozone generic government bond  
HML is the difference between returns on high BE/ME (H)  and low BE/ME portfolios (L).  
BMS is the difference between the returns on large ME (B) and  small ME portfolios (S).  
LMS is the difference between returns on high NI/CFO (L) and low NI/CFO portfolios (S).  
Variance  Inflation Factor  is calculated as:  1/(1 -R2), where R2 is the coefficient of determination for the 
regression of the dependent and in dependent variables  
 
 
 
 
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

---
## Page 24

 24  
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742170

